[ES] Emphasizes the datastore capabilities of ES on landing page (#2892)
elastic/docs-content: solutions/search.md

  - id: kibana
---

# The Elasticsearch solution

> The {{es}} solution and serverless project type position {{es}} as a comprehensive platform: a scalable data store, a powerful search engine, and a vector database in one. At its core, {{es}} is a distributed datastore that can ingest, index, and manage various types of data in near real-time, making them both searchable and analyzable. With specialized user interfaces and tools, it provides the flexibility to create, deploy, and run a wide range of applications, from search to analytics to AI-driven solutions.

Author: Yes, I think the tip is useful. I've added it via [4e7934f](https://github.com/elastic/docs-content/pull/2892/commits/4e7934fe00327b8d6d196d9e12ebccf149c1d8d3). I have slightly rephrased it to fit the page content better.

  - id: kibana
---

# The Elasticsearch solution

> The {{es}} solution and serverless project type position {{es}} as a comprehensive platform: a scalable data store, a powerful search engine, and a vector database in one. At its core, {{es}} is a distributed datastore that can ingest, index, and manage various types of data in near real-time, making them both searchable and analyzable. With specialized user interfaces and tools, it provides the flexibility to create, deploy, and run a wide range of applications, from search to analytics to AI-driven solutions.

Reviewer: Small nit: I wonder if the wording here should be about a scalable datastore that powers a search engine, a vector database and analytics in one?

## What the {{es}} solution provides

The {{es}} solution and serverless project type include specialized user interfaces and tools that simplify working with {{es}}:

> * **Ingestion tools**: Content connectors, crawlers, file upload function, and indexing APIs for ingesting and storing data

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Ingestion tools**: Content connectors, crawlers, file upload capabilities, and indexing APIs for ingesting and storing data
```

* **Data management and discovery**: Discover and Dashboards for exploring data, building visualizations, and creating interactive experiences
* **Management interfaces**: Index Management and other tools for configuring and optimizing your stored data and implementation
* **Search relevance tools**: Purpose-built UIs for managing synonyms, query rules, and other relevance-enhancing features
* **AI toolkit**: RAG Playground and inference endpoints management for building AI-enhanced applications
* **Complete {{es}} REST API**: Full access to {{es}}'s comprehensive APIs for indexing, searching, and managing data

> * **Deployment flexibility**: Run in Elastic Cloud, Elastic Serverless, or self-managed environments with consistent interfaces

Reviewer 2: Maybe a good place to use attributes {{ecloud}} and {{serverless-full}}?

## Core capabilities and use cases

You can think of {{es}} in two complementary ways:

1. **As a datastore and vector database**: use {{es}} directly to ingest, store, and manage many types of data in a scalable, cost-efficient way, without the need to add anything else.

> 2. **As a foundation for custom applications**: including search and discovery experiences that you design and build using {{es}}'s building blocks.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. **As a foundation for custom applications**: use {{es}}'s building blocks to design and build applications including search and discovery tools.  
```
starting with the verb to match the previous bullet point

> ### Datastore and vector database

Reviewer: Let's call it datastore since vectors are first class citizen now. The datastore powers an efficient vector database...

> You can index many types of data, keep them stored efficiently, searchable, and analyzable. If all you need is a reliable and scalable datastore, you can use {{es}} that way without adding anything else. All of {{es}}’s advanced capabilities start with its role as a [data store](/manage-data/data-store.md). Examples include, but are not limited to:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can index many types of data to store it efficiently for search and analysis. If all you need is a reliable and scalable datastore, you can use {{es}}'s basic functionality without advanced configuration. All of {{es}}’s advanced capabilities start with its role as a [data store](/manage-data/data-store.md). Supported data types include, but are not limited to:
```
As written, it sounded to me like the "Examples" will be advanced capabilities, not types of data.
Not sure my suggestions for the second sentence are accurate.

> * **Textual data**: documents, logs, articles, or transcripts

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Textual data**: documents, logs, articles, and transcripts
```
I think the "and" is better than the "or" (like you used for **Geospatial data**)

* **Numerical data**: metrics, performance data, sensor readings

> * **Time series data**: events, traces, or system metrics collected over time

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Time series data**: events, traces, and system metrics collected over time
```

* **Geospatial data**: coordinates, maps, and location-based signals
* **Vector data**: embeddings from {{ml}} models for semantic or hybrid search

> By bringing these capabilities together, {{es}} acts as a powerful data store, time series database, geospatial engine, and vector database, all within a single technology. Whether you use it as a datastore or as the backbone for advanced search and analytics, this unified foundation enables you to work seamlessly with diverse data types and power your own applications.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By bringing these capabilities together, {{es}} acts as a powerful data store, time series database, geospatial engine, and vector database, all within a single platform. Whether you use it as a datastore or as the backbone for advanced search and analytics, this unified foundation enables you to work seamlessly with diverse data types and power your own applications.
```

### Search and discovery applications

> Search is one of the common use cases built on {{es}}. With your own data (text, logs, metrics, events, vectors, or geospatial information), {{es}} gives you the tools to store, search, and analyze it. Using these building blocks, you can design search and discovery experiences, from internal knowledge bases to product catalogs, chat interfaces, or geospatial applications.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Search is one of the common use cases built on {{es}}. {{es}} gives you the tools to store, search, and analyze your own data, including text, logs, metrics, events, vectors, and geospatial information. Using these building blocks, you can design search and discovery experiences, from internal knowledge bases to product catalogs, chat interfaces, or geospatial applications.
```
